DAY 1
Q1. What things does kernel manage?
Ans. 1. Kernel takes care of how much memory is used to store, where you store.
         2. It determines which processes use the CPU, for how much time, and for what purpose.
        3. It acts as an interpreter between the hardware and processes.
Q2. Explain the output of the “ls-l” command?
Ans. It shows all the lists and information about all the files and directories within the system.
Q3. How to create multiple files with a single command?
Ans. Using TOUCH command
Q4. How to delete files in vim editor?
Ans. :!rm filename
          Then in terminal
          Shift+zz
Q5. Where are unit files located?
Ans. /usr/lib/system directory 
DAY 2
Q1. What are absolute paths and relative paths?
Ans. Absolute path- starts from the root directory and goes up to the actual object (files or   directory)
Relative path- starts from the current directory and goes up to the actual object. 
Q2. What are hard links?
Ans. The hard link is the copy of the selected file. It accesses the data available in the original file.
Q3. What does SRV contain and why it is empty?
Ans. SRV establishes a connection between a service and a service. Whenever an application finds the location of a specific service or a file, it will reach for SRV.
SRV record begins with (_).

Q4. What does the mnt directory contain?
Ans. It contains CDROMs, floppy disks, and USB disks.
Q5. In vim how can we search inside the file?
Ans. Using / (any word) in the bottom line
Q6. Difference between wq and q?
Ans.  Wq- save and quit 
          q- quit and not saving changes
Q7. What are hidden files?
Ans. All the files that start with (.) are hidden files
EVALUATION QUESTIONS
Q1. What is grep command and hyphen used in grep command?
Ans. Grep command search character pattern in a file like some file is given and we have to search for a string. We can search one string in multiple files.
Hyphens used in grep command:-
-c displays the number of the matched line
-h displays the matched and hidden filename
 I- ignore the case during matching
 L- display the files, not line
 n- display the matched and line number
Q2. What is sed command?
Ans. Stands for stream editor, it performs functions like searching, find and replace, insertion or deletion
Sed ‘s/Linux/Unix/’ file name
Q3. What is the awk command?
Ans. Awk command is basically used for pattern scanning and text processing language.
     It is used to scan a file, it can be used to cut a certain portion from the file and to pull out relevant information from it.
     -F sets the field separator
     To print file 
     Awk ‘{print}’ file name
Q4. What is UFW?
Ans. UFW is the utility that is designed to simplify the setup and management of firewall rules in most specific IP Table rules. UFW allows you easily set up and control the various firewall rules. 
Q5. How to check the status of any file?
Ans. sudo file or package name status
Q6. Output of chmod 443?
Ans. 
Q7. Difference between nano vim and touch?
Ans. NANO- nano is not preinstalled in the ubuntu system. we have to install it using apt install command. 
     VIM-
     TOUCH- touch is used to create file and also using touch we can create multiple files.
Q8. what is apt-update?
Ans. sudo apt update downloads package information from all configured sources (i.e. the sources configured inside /etc/apt/sources.list). 

